This part will look at the behavior of the minimum order statistic from a random sample
from an exp(1) distribution.

1. Show that the minimum order statistic converges in probability to 0. Hint: We know
the CDF of an exponential and how to find the CDF of the minimum order statistic.
Start with the probability you want to show from the definition of convergence in
probability to 0 (P(|Y(1) − 0| < )) and take the limit as n goes to infinity and show
this is 1.

2. To visualize this we’ll simulate data and approximate the probability statement proven
in the previous part.
(a) For a sample size of n = 1, generate N = 1000 data sets from an exp(1) distribution.
(b) For each data set, find the minimum value (for a sample of size 1 that will just
be the value itself).
(c) Save these minimum values for plotting.

3. Consider an  of 0.05. Approximate the probability of interest (P(|Y(1) − 0| < ))
using these 1000 simulated minimum values. (This is a Monte Carlo estimate of the
probability.) Save this probability.

4. Repeat the above simulation and approximation of the probability of interest for n =
2, 3, ..., 50.

5. Create a plot with the sample size on the x-axis and the probability of interest on the
y-axis. All created plots should have titles and appropriate axis labels.

6. In a comment explain how this plot can help someone understand convergence in
probability to a constant.

7. You should also have the 1000 values of the minimum for each n saved from above.
Create a plot with the sample size on the x-axis and the values of the minimum on the
y-axis. (You should have 1000 values plotted above n = 1, 1000 plotted above n = 2,
etc.). All created plots should have titles and appropriate axis labels.

8. In a comment explain how this plot can help someone understand convergence in probability to a constant.
Note: The above R code to create the data sets can be done in a similar way to what
was done on page 161 except here we are generating 1000 values for each sample size
instead of 1. The code from page 163 is pretty similar in spirit to what you are trying
to do here as well.
